Sorry, I can I can pause the recording.
I just don't want to forget.
>> That's fine. Thank you, John. Well, we
have a quorum, so I guess we can begin.
Welcome to the May 19th Andover Planning
and Zoning Commission meeting. And we're
now calling the meeting to order.
And first things first,
Uh, present is Leanne Hutchinson,
Jed Larson, Scott Persan, and myself,
and
the Jay is here.
>> I'm here. How you doing, guys?
>> You will be seated as the alternate.
You'll be seated tonight.
>> Okay, sounds good.
think in bagels online yet. So,
all right. And we do we're moving right
along to item three, additions and
changes to the agenda. We do have an
addition.
Um we we are adding uh a 5A
second constitation to for whispering
bills
for old business for the planning part
of our planning zone.
Are there any other changes or additions
the agenda?
Make a motion to approve the agenda as
amended.
>> Second.
Any discussion? All in favor? I
>> I J.
>> I'm good.
>> Okay. Motion passes. Five Z.
Any Okay, moving right along to public
speak.
See some extra people online. Well,
they're online with uh for for new
business. Okay,
>> very good. Moving right along
now. We're at old business.
Uh the floor is yours. Um and uh
if you want
>> Yes, please announce yourself.
>> I'm giving names for most people know me
as
the state
just I brought this is uh you were you
discussed it last month while I twist
the bills and thank you
on the property because nobody can see
it from the road.
you could share quite
the study civil engineer Jessica Chapman
who's the manager of the project uh has
has contacted us about doing the
engineering for the application but the
property is you know it's on wheels
whales road and shotty hill road uh
there are 32 apartments at the present
time she was here a month ago and
discussed that she'd like to put some or
onto the piece of property and uh
there's a mention of the 8-30g
uh
procedure for doing it and my question
to you is since I was saying civil
engineering preparing the information
what do do you envision the next step uh
as far as this uh then what level of
information are you because it's not in
your regulations and
don't want to spend any more money than
we have to do.
>> Those are fair questions. U
I'm going to defer to our
town planner John and maybe Wayne a
little bit here because
we're this would be the first time that
I'm at my knowledge that 8:30 was
utilized to add apartments to our town.
Um
>> so if if I might Mr. Sure.
>> Thank you, John. Yep.
>> So, yeah, I mean it it's a little bit
tricky and I'm sorry I I missed the
name. Is it Skip the the book?
>> So, um it's a little bit tricky to ask
the zoning commission how to proceed
with an 830G
because 830G is sort of designed by the
state to do a an endound around local
zoning regulations. So, it it's it's
used when zoning regulations would not
otherwise allow the sort of housing
density that you're proposing. Um, so
you you wouldn't find an answer in the
zoning regulations. Um, I I think and
and I I've talked to your your your
client or your partner about this uh a
little bit.
I I think you and she need to determine
what your goals are in terms of unit
yield and and understand where on the
property you'd like those units to go.
Um, I think you you probably need to do
some soil testing to determine if you've
got sufficient, you know, and and decent
enough soils to dispose of the waste
water um that's generated by the new
housing units as well as your well
yields to make sure that you can provide
portable water uh and possibly fire
protection depending on fire codes uh
for those units. Um
I I think I think the idea being you
need to do your development due
diligence um mapping site investigation
and and development planning as if this
was
essentially a go because if you you know
if you present a plan that you know uh
sets aside 30% of the new units as uh
incomerestricted
and you are able to answer you know
basic uh issues of public health, safety
and welfare, this will be a go. You
know, the state is put its thumb on the
scale on on your side. Um
and you know, the the only thing you
would really need the zoning commission
for is if you were looking to change the
current regulations in order to, you
know, legally and locally enable the
sort of development that that you would
want to do there. But barring that and
and you know if you're going to proceed
down the 830g path you should proceed
with a site development plan as if you
were doing something you know as of
right from scratch.
I I would add that I I really think the
commission needs to be cautious in
discussing an A30G
because that is essentially an appeal of
a zoning decision
as far as the way I understand it.
>> Yeah. and and yes and that's yeah the
the way that the statute envisions 830G
going is you know you as you know the
the property owner would present this
apartment expansion plan the zoning
commission would look at it and say hey
we don't allow these in this location
you're denied and then you would take
that denial to court and make your case
for 830G um there is something called a
friendly 830G which that which basically
proceeds with the planning and zoning
commission going into the process
acknowledging that not only does the
town not um have 10% of its housing
stock uh you know designated as
affordable. So therefore the town is
subject um but you know so we intend to
cooperate with this process and will
focus our comments and our review of the
proposed development exclusively. We
will not look at the elements of you
know do we allow multif family here or
what is the density allowed what are the
setbacks allowed that sort of thing. we
will ignore those and focus our comments
exclusively on those elements of public
health, safety and welfare. So the town
can be an active participant, planning
and zoning can be an active participant
in what we would call a friendly 830G.
But yeah, broadly speaking, as Wayne
said, the way the statute is set up. Um
this is, you know, you would take your
denial from planning and zoning because
we don't allow this and go to court. But
but we can you know I I think this
commission would be more than willing to
uh entertain a a friendly A30G with the
understanding that you know andover is
subject to this statute.
I guess you know when I started looking
at how I thought this might go I thought
we would do
in uh
I don't know if it's site plan review or
special permit you know I but I would
just go through the process we would
have as if it were allowed by our
regulations right and
>> sit down you we've got a 57 step
checklist of all the things that a
special permit
uh would require. And I think if you did
most of those,
um there might be some things that you
want uh
to not do and and you and Wayne agreed
that that was appropriate, you filled
the checklist out that way. But I think
what we're really looking for is the
site plan that shows what you want to do
and the approvals from, you know, the
fire sanitarian, that kind of thing. And
then, uh,
I would think that whether we determined
it was a special permit or a site plan
review,
my sense would be we ought to do a
public hearing on it because it's first
8:30G. There's going to be a lot of
confusion in the town. That gives us a
chance to answer everybody's questions
about that right off the bat. But even
though we don't have regulations to say
that, you know, with the friendly P30G,
if you will, you know, we don't have to
disapprove it and and let you take it to
court, I think we're clear to say we
approve it knowing that, you know, E30G
is on your side and uh we see no reason
that it wouldn't be upheld that way.
Right.
>> But I would just use our special permit
instruction section 23
>> of the range.
>> I think Jed Jed, you're broadly correct.
The one wrinkle is that um
an A30G application need you know must
comply with site plan standards uh or I
mean site plan procedures. it is you are
not um specifically authorized to hold a
public hearing on it unless the
applicant so consents.
Um
>> the rationale of uh the the commission
determining it's in the public interest
uh doesn't work in this case. Um,
I I mean, you know, that would be
ideally sort of the the mutual
friendliness of a friendly 830G is that
the applicant would would say, you know,
I I want to be transparent here. I want
to make sure that that the town
understands and so I am uh consenting to
a public hearing. But but you you you
should not mistake
that for this being entitled to a public
hearing. No, I just think uh the
applicant and the commission would both
benefit from sure the public chance to
ask questions and get it all out on the
table. Otherwise, the rumor bill is
going to go crazy.
>> Of of course, but but you know, we need
to be cautious with uh not giving anyone
the sense that
the the public or the commission for
that matter has more authority or say
than they actually do.
>> Yeah.
But we went through that with the Dollar
General. You know, we didn't have a
whole, but I think it worked out well
that we did.
Dollar General was permitted by our
regulations.
>> Yeah, I got you.
>> So, I I I just I I am I am I can't
emphasize enough. I I I believe the
commission needs to be cautious
on how it proceeds because
you're giving advice to an applicant
that we and we we don't have we have no
legal counsel here to advise us at this
time. Um
uh that I'll just leave it at that. But
as far as coming to the commission with
a fully developed site plan,
absolutely you have to do that.
That's that's that's step one. How where
you going to put these? How you going to
take, as John discussed, how you going
to um address
septic and water and and safety and and
all that good stuff? Um
what what else you planning on doing? uh
you know pop river trail borders this
property going to do something with that
things like that so
that that's where that's where I am a
fully developed site plan
A2 survey A2 A2 standards and all that
good stuff you you know it well sure
>> so when you say safety what are you
referring to
as part of the plan you said subject
water and safety Yes. Fire fire access,
emergency access,
>> appropriate lighting,
>> you know,
>> and understand
things have changed since these were
built in 1967 as far as a lot of these
things are concerned. So that's that's
where I am.
But I think I think one of the top
reasons at least from the newspaper
articles I read are
when when people view safety, they talk
about road traffic in the vicinity of
the development,
>> but it has to be addressed.
>> Yeah, it does. in the that's that's on
the article here to address it. Great.
>> So we take a look at traffic how you're
getting traffic on.
>> Okay. So how do we determine that
>> that um so that's and again not getting
too too deep into the weeds on this but
if you're talking about traffic I I
think you would probably do um a a an
existing conditions traffic count. how
many vehicles are going out of your
driveway and onto the road in the course
of you know x hours or or the course of
a day and then you what you do then is a
projection forward. So you've got what
third 32 units there right now.
>> Yes.
>> Um you you know you do those counts say
you know those 32 units generate 120
vehicle trips per day going you know
left and right onto the onto the town
road. um you know with a peak flow of
you know maybe between 7:30 and 8:30 in
the morning is your peak flow and you've
got you know 15 of them or something
like that. Um and that establishes a
level of service. So like how long does
someone need to sit at that intersection
before they're cleared to make a left or
right turn. And then you do the
projection forward. If you're adding
another 16 units, what is that traffic
count likely to be? And does that affect
um the time that people have to wait at
the driveway or on the town road? Um my
my suspicion is and I'm not not casting
any judgment about this. Traffic volumes
on that road are extraordinarily low and
an additional 16 units are probably not
to change not going to change it that
much, but it it's you know necessary to
kind of do that exercise to to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
commission that you know this additional
traffic volume is not creating an unsafe
condition.
Okay, got it.
>> That checklist is important.
>> Just follow that.
>> Okay.
>> Goes over fire marshall. He's got it.
Okay. And all just a lot of things on
the checklist like Wayne saying.
>> Okay.
>> Easy enough.
>> And then if I might add
in my opinion
uh to try and be conforming to the rest
of the zoning regulator.
Um,
>> the lighting. Yeah. So, it's not shining
at the neighbors. These are all requests
because I'm not sure of the legal
implications of what I'm asking, but at
the same time,
>> well, lighting is the same.
>> Okay, fair enough. And then uh we also
have uh the with what was referred to as
a summary review or site plan review. We
discussed that briefly, but also the
environmental review. So that would go
before
>> inland wetland has to weigh in on
>> Yeah,
>> but they just weigh in. Correct.
>> No, they it depends on what was
identified as wetland.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you.
>> Are you looking for full environmental
>> just wetlands? Just
>> No, it
>> right. If there's if there's if there's
wetlands and I you know I assume there's
no there's no flood plane on site.
there's, you know, if there are
endangered species, that's something
that we should know. But yeah, it's it's
primarily wetlands.
>> And in fact, wetlands comes first before
the permission.
>> Okay.
>> Easy enough.
>> Thank you.
>> Well, anything else or Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> So,
>> thank you very much.
>> All right. Thank you.
>> Thank you. Oh, let me do some homework.
>> There it is.
>> Yes.
>> There's no other old business. double
checking before we move on.
>> As far as I know.
>> Okay.
>> Put it in there.
Um, well, before we move on to old
business, I just want to
like to take the opportunity to just
have a quick discussion about this
because
and that since I did review the uh
attorney Branch's uh input on new
developments and the state's new
requirements, a couple of things that
caught my eye were the architect
arctural review board or summary review,
site plan review, which in this case
would actually be applicable because
that's like the only things we do have a
right to have an import. If correct me
if I'm wrong, John,
>> that's what I was interpreting from that
class, the online class.
>> Uh I 830G throws a lot of that out the
window.
>> Oh, it does. Um, but summary review is
applicable to the state's new
requirements for uh what's called
transit oriented middle housing, these
small multifamilies. That summary review
is still is still applicable to that.
830G is a different animal
>> if we had those regulations in place.
>> Yes, correct,
>> which we should try to get on top of
soon.
And also I wanted to kind of get the
feel of the commission. Do you think we
need a subcommittee
>> to address jumping?
>> Oh yes.
>> Yeah. Maybe. Okay. We can talk about it
later discussion, but also uh the
economic development commission, we had
our meeting last night. We we talked
about a lot of this stuff, too. So I
just want to make sure that we start
looping them in and they're involved
more here. also going forward with the
hopefully
some zoning regs for multif family and
you know what's the max we would want to
do etc but we can talk about that
uh moving on to new business
okay we have uh
Scott Electrocraft's here We have Chris
Busy
um who is come to the coming to the
commission to discuss concepts for
potential expansion of Scott
Electrocrafts. Uh I believe everybody
knows where that is located on Route 6,
uh pretty much close to the Coventry
line.
>> Um
Scott, you have I mean Chris, you have a
floor.
>> Hey guys, thanks for uh having us. I
have my general manager on the call with
me as well, Tom Johnston. So, over the
course of the last year, we've grown
significantly here and our, you know,
our current floor space isn't really
allowing us to expand much more. So,
we've been having internal discussions
over the last year or so on things that
we can do. And we've been speaking to
some outside uh construction companies
and we're looking at potentially
different ways where we could add
anywhere between, you know, 10 to 13,000
square foot, you know, depending on what
the the land and the the current lot
will allow us to do. So, we're just kind
of we're we're still in the early stages
here, but we're trying to lean into the
town to see what you guys will allow us.
We understand that, you know, parking in
septic will be, you know, a big part of
this, but, you know, we're we're trying
to also understand, you know, how like
how far from the uh the road there on
Route 6 are we allowed to go towards and
um and that that's that's essentially
really it.
So, I've put the I've put the copy of
the sketch that was sent by Scott uh
Electrocs 2 on the screen so you can
kind of see broadly what they're
envisioning.
>> Yeah, it's on like a super high level as
to, you know, what we're really trying
to accomplish there. And we believe by
doing that would allow, you know, an
additional 10,000 square feet and we'd
able we'd be able to bring, you know,
our current employee count up to, you
know, 75 would be the max we could
probably fit in there.
Well, do you know what the distance
would be from uh
the uh the edge of your new building to
the road?
>> Like how far from the main road?
>> Yes. Uh, so if you if you've been by our
building before, there's a little
building out in front that's used as our
break room.
>> And that's about the as far out as we we
would want to go
where where that building ends.
>> So you demolish that building and not
any closer to the road than
>> Yeah. No, no closer than where it is
right now. Where the where that building
is right now. But just try to enclose
off the entire building and you know
make it one big square.
You know, at one point we were in a, you
know, a brief discussion with trying to
get a hold of whoever owns the lot next
door to us, but from our understanding
that that piece of land is with Forestry
for the next couple years. So, that
owner isn't willing to sell at this
current time.
>> We used to own it.
>> Yeah. At a time we owned it. How long
ago was that? I would say 35 years ago.
>> Yeah. But if we if we were able to get
that, that would be, you know, pretty
big for, you know, adding a parking lot
over there. And now with the latest
addition that, you know, with that
stoplight that was added this past week.
>> So, I put up on the screen, I believe,
if I'm if I I put a copy of the zoning
regulations. Um,
ind this is industrially zoned. Um
Wayne, you'll have to tell me if we're
adjacent to uh residential or not.
>> No.
>> Uh but it looks like uh
>> one might be but go ahead.
>> Uh the front yard setback appears to be
100 ft. So from your front property line
along Route 6, you're 100t back for
structures,
35 ft on one side and a total of 75 ft
for your two sideyards and 35 ft for
your rear yard.
>> How does this work? How does this play
into effect with parking?
>> Parking is not considered a structure.
>> Okay.
>> So, parking can be located in the front
yard.
>> Okay.
>> And is that I was trying to find the
words. Um I'm assuming that's measured
like all other setbacks are from the
center line of the road.
>> No, from the property line.
>> No, from the front yard setback.
>> Front front yard is is from the front
property line, not from the center line
of the road.
Well, in our other in our ARD
regulations, it's actually says the
center line of the
>> Okay, for 24.3. All right. Sorry. Let's
let me check.
>> So, this would be an addition or a new
larger separate building than the
>> It would be an addition where we would
want to tie everything in. We were we
we've been working with Slotnik
Construction out of Mansfield on this.
Oh, there. they've been putting together
a proposal on a budget for us. And uh
one of the other things that kind of
came up too was uh with fire protection.
We understand from our understanding
since we would be going over, you know,
24,000 square foot in current footprint
that we would actually have to have fire
protection. Is that correct?
>> There it is. Uh hang on.
>> Last line, John. Edge of the pavement in
the business and industrial zone.
except
where step back is measured from edge of
pavement. Okay. So, so 100 feet from the
edge of pavement, which is a little odd
because the edge of pavement can change
if the road is is adjusted.
>> Now, that existing building was a
restaurant at one time, correct?
>> Correct.
>> Yes.
>> And that was that was issued a special
permit back in the day to operate. And I
don't I don't have the details on that.
But
>> you know how long ago that was me?
>> Uh
oh, a long time ago. I'm trying to
remember if I remember back in the 80s
was it? Yeah,
>> it was in the early 80s
>> because it was like Jenny's place, Suz's
place.
>> Anyway, I'm just there's there's history
there. So,
and of course, if worse comes to worse,
I suppose a variance could be asked for.
Oh, no. We can vary stuff for business
and industrial, can't we? I don't know.
I'd have to check that out.
I guess the other comment I would make
was I don't know how many square foot
the lot is that you currently have, but
you know, one of the requirements on
that uh chart that John had up on the
screen a minute ago was 50% lot
coverage. And so we need to make sure
that we didn't exceed that.
>> Yeah. And just
>> that's some calculation to do. I I'm
also we may have a little bit of a a
setback issue if if we're we're
measuring setback from
the
edge of pavement and this is this is you
know please understand this is Google
maps so this is not a survey but just
taking a rough and I don't know if you
can see this well but basically
drawing a line from the edge of the
pavement as I can see it on the screen
here and going about 100 ft it takes you
well past uh the existing shed there and
and takes up a you know a chunk of that
that front yard. So there may be some
engineering challenges just just to fit
the geometry again unless you're looking
for a text amendment or a variance.
>> What about our addition in 2007?
That's the front building there. It must
be it looks like it's inside that rate.
>> It is. I I I don't know. Uh someone who
was here in 2007 may have more insight
on how that was permitted. It's possible
the regulations
changed
um between then and now or or yeah, I I
I couldn't say.
>> I think worst case scenario, we'd like
to just tie it, you know, get rid of the
front building and tie in the same
length out of that building straight
across the front.
>> Yeah. you know, that's what you know, if
if it's that much of a variance, I would
just it would make the whole building
look a lot better from the road and it
would um kind of make give us space too
without really um a lot of wasted space
out front of our building like that.
>> Right. No, it makes sense. Um, I think
then we'd have to check Wayne if you
know what the regulations are on
extension of existing non-conforming
structure if you're allowed to if we
could swap out, you know, removal of
this building with extending the
building to the south.
>> Correct.
>> Uh, that that may be something that can
be swapped out, but we'll have to take
take a look at the rags.
>> I will I I did dig up the and I I'm
sorry. I didn't I should have thought to
have printed them off or or scanned
them. Um the 2007
edition, I don't know if any board me
any members were here.
Um
and how that came to be. Um there there
were several additions to that property
over the years, 2007 being the most
recent and
>> 97 98 we did the other edition.
>> Right. Right.
So,
I will dig all that stuff up, Chris.
I'll send it to you. I'll let the
commission have it.
And you too, John.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> Thank you.
>> Also, I think you were asking Thomas,
uh, you were asking or Chris, I'm not
sure who was asking about the fire
requirements. You'd have to check the
check with our fire department.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. Our only concern with that is
because we're strictly like electronics,
uh we could not really use water in our
facility. Uh we would have to go to uh
the other forms of fire suppression.
understand that's that's not that's not
our call,
>> right? Okay.
>> I think that
I don't want to speak for the
commission. It's
not my place,
>> but we have but it is but it is a a you
know long-standing business in town.
>> Yes.
>> Employs a lot of people. Yep.
>> Probably pays a lot of taxes.
If I recall, they're one of our biggest
stash fairs in town. So,
oh,
>> Chris,
in working with your engineer, do you
have any preliminary plans done? Just
>> No, just really what I sent you.
>> Okay.
>> Was the only thing
We should we we should be getting more
information from them in the coming
weeks. They they've been kind of going
back and forth with uh they're looking
into the fire suppression thing for us
now trying to get a budgetary quote in
there. We were quoted out a price, but
they're not going to go to anything
preliminary until there's a contract in
place.
>> Right. Right.
Then they'll be able to start working
internally on, you know, with their
engineers on, you know, getting
something together from my understanding
to then take to the town of Andover to
then work with you.
>> Would the commissioner like to hear from
Chris next meeting and with more
information provided by me and the rest
of it?
>> Yes. Um, and Before
we go further, I'm I'm presuming that
the if you were to expand on I mean well
before that was is there anybody in the
commission that would
think that the front of the building is
not a good idea before we even go
further
like cuz the I'm sure the back of the
building you might have evaluated that
there's
>> that's there there's a bank.
>> Oh, there's a bank. Uh,
all right.
>> Yeah, there's the whole river that runs
to the back.
>> Yeah,
>> that's like our only real feasible land
for any sort of expansion. That's where
this kind of started.
>> You do have room for parking on the
side, though.
>> Yeah.
feel.
>> That's the only question I have.
>> Yeah.
>> So,
>> I guess the question I really have is
how did we address,
you know, is there something in the
package that addresses the fact that
we're not 100 ft from the edge of the
road,
>> right,
>> when we built it 2007. Is that what
>> Yeah.
>> That whole new building was the building
07. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
did and they should have been addressed.
>> That's something I should have brought
to the commissioner, but um
>> well, we don't know right now. So,
>> I I'll get it to you guys and u
>> Okay,
>> Chris and John and um I believe that was
a site plan approved. That was a site
plan approval, too. That was not a
special permit.
There were previous expansions that were
special permits, and that threw me off.
So,
It's another thing to decide because me
and John were going back and forth on
whether this would be a site plan or a
special permit
activity is allowed in an industrial
zone.
>> So technically it's not really
>> be a special I didn't think it was.
>> Yeah, it's it's allowed this is allowed
in in
But still be a site review. Commission
would still get the drawings and all
that good stuff.
Any other questions from the commission?
Any other questions from uh Scott
electronics?
No, nothing for myself.
>> Sorry.
>> Okay, hearing none, I guess. Uh,
>> thank you very much.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you very much.
Moving on to item seven,
we have our two candidates.
Yay. And beyond should be more formal. J
CN be
uh flip a coin start.
You already have your letter of intent
in your copy.
>> Yeah.
Does the commission have any questions?
Start that one.
>> The only thing to point out is that
your letter says that you were applying
for an alternate vacancy, but you're not
really you're applying for the full
position. My apologies. Yes,
>> she corrected that.
>> Okay. So, sorry.
So I I guess my my question is you know
a point of order here. We had
I think the uh notice said we had an
opening.
>> Yeah.
>> And so when made the mistake on our
letter I said this is great. We've got
one of the alternates wants to be the
regular. We've got somebody new who
wants to be an alternate.
We're all done.
Then I started wrestling with in that
that one opening. They just shift it
again, bring it in somebody new. And uh
um
I don't know that we could do that, but
I think it would sure be nice.
I mean, well, it depends on how it goes.
There may be an opening on there. Yeah.
that I believe will have to be announced
and go through the same process
per the charter
under the uh by
>> Yeah, the charter.
>> Oh, sorry. Charter. You're right.
Charter. I'm sorry.
>> Okay.
So like like need vision
a little too much.
>> Good thinking.
>> Yeah,
>> I like where you were going.
>> How'd you handle this last time?
>> Well, it wasn't exactly right.
>> Candidates. Let me ask each candidate to
give a little
>> presentation
and then
>> you guys go from there.
>> Jay, would you like to go first?
>> Yeah, of course. Can you hear me? Okay.
>> Yes, we can. Thank you.
>> Okay. Yeah. So, you know, I was elected
as an alternate um in the last election
and um I've really had a wonderful
experience. have really enjoyed getting
to to know the P&Z and also kind of
understanding
some of the uh the issues and challenges
that that you have. um trying to have um
you know a progress forward
uh kind of a approach to development
while also being you know very conscious
of kind of handover and its needs and
its own personality and wanting to
preserve that. Um so I've just had a
I've had a good time and uh so the
I don't think I've missed a meeting. So
when the position came up, uh I was more
than happy to um put myself forward to
try and fill the position and uh be
happy to do so if you uh if you need me.
>> Thank you.
>> Yeah, I don't I can answer questions,
but I think that's about that's that's
it in terms of my motivations.
Any questions from the commission?
Earing up. Bata, your turn.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> Um,
I think everybody knows me. Jay, we
haven't had the pleasure to meet yet.
Um, but I
have an interest in planning and zoning
because it's very career adjacent and I
happen to really love what I do. I'm
also deeply invested in the growth and
future of this town being um having a
younger family in the schools, moving on
to Ram next year and um you know I would
love to
help with my real estate knowledge um as
that is my current career. Um, and you
know, I think I have a an interesting
perspective
um, a different perspective maybe than
is currently on the board on the
commission that would maybe lend nicely.
I also currently serve on ETC. I am PTA
president elect
um for next year and I do serve on some
professional committees, regional
events, uh young professionals network.
Um
so yes, would love to be a part of the
commission if you'll have me in any
capacity.
>> Thank you. Any questions from the
commission?
All right, hearing up. Thank you for
your interviews and um
I guess we'll close out item seven and
go into executive session.
>> Executive session two.
>> All right. So, who who's being um
invited to stay?
>> I think everybody but Biana and Jay have
to I mean and Jay have to leave. I think
everybody else is staying on here.
>> So Jay needs to log back in at some
point or
>> Yeah, he can't be
>> I could I could actually bring us
>> There wasn't There was a way you did it
before where we
>> Yeah. No, I could Yeah, I could take you
to I could take us all to a breakout
room.
>> I hadn't thought about that. Um Yeah. Do
you want me to just do that?
>> It's up to you.
>> Okay, Jay, you you stay put. Um,
>> yeah. Okay.
>> Okay.
>> All right. So, Kevin and Wayne, you've
been invited to the breakout room.
>> I'm going to hit pause on the recording.
I have to make a statement for the
record that we voted unanimous
unanimously to go to executive session
but it was not recorded.
Um
now somebody has to make a motion.
So you want to I'm sorry Mr. Secretary,
you want to state for the record that no
decisions were made in public in
executive session?
>> I will make that statement. No decisions
were made in executive session. We did
not vote.
>> Ask
Go ahead. I'm sorry.
>> No, just saying in the affirmative. I
heard you.
>> Oh, good. Thank you. Thank you.
>> Oh, um
Did you guys
>> I'm looking for a motion.
>> I'll make a motion that we elect Jay as
the new member
to fill the vacancy created by
there. Second.
>> I'll second.
>> Uh
what's your vote?
discussion. Thank you. I'm a little
flustered.
Any discussion?
>> The reason I'm flustered for the record
is we we like both candidates. Thank
you. Um
let's take a vote. I
>> um
>> okay
I
um motion passes 30 and J is abstain
have recused himself abstained
>> you abstained correct J
>> correct yes yeah abstain
31.
>> Motion carries.
>> That's great. Thank you so much. Can I
can I make a quick statement?
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. Um I just think it's really
fantastic that we had two people that
wanted to step up um for a town
committee. Um and uh so I think that's
wonderful. It's it's uh it's great and I
hope that we can uh build the alternate
seat
>> shortly soon.
So
>> So thank you.
>> Thank you for your consideration.
>> Thank you.
>> Congratulations, J.
>> So there will be an opening for the
alternative
posted shortly.
>> So I'll correct my letter back to
just let you know.
>> Thank you.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you. Thank you so much.
>> None of us wanted to make that motion.
Okay. Uh, moving on to item 10,
correspondence.
Uh, commission has some correspondence,
but that's for basically item 11 is
discussion.
I don't and no I I don't have any any
correspondence
for the commission.
No other corresponds. Okay, moving on.
Unless you have some I do not. Um
just check my notes. No.
Let's move on. Uh, should we wait till
Le Rian gets back or take a pause?
>> I
Yeah, I think we have to make a pause.
There's going to be
discussion.
Mr.
>> Yeah. John, in preparation for this uh
section, could you pull up uh
anything you might have prepared for
mixed use development andor
the new chart that Maybe the chart
chart precaution.
>> I'm sorry. What are you asking me to
pull up?
>> Yeah.
>> I don't know. I don't even know. Sorry.
Well, I'm thinking that that this
discussion is going to be a a very high
level organizing
um
discussion, not necessarily get into any
nitty-gritty on any particular specific
topic because of our discussion about uh
potentially creating a working group
to address this.
So you just want me to review sort of
high level what sort of regulations need
to be adjusted on the basis of public
act 251 and and sort of how I recommend
proceeding.
>> Yes,
>> okay. So there are two categories and
and I know Mark Brance had had forwarded
a bunch of uh templates and thoughts for
you. Um, I think some of what he's doing
is
uh I think he there's a couple of things
in there that I'm not sure why he
necessarily included, but we can we can
talk with him about it. Um, basically
there are two sets of regulations that
the commission needs to consider ideally
before July 1st. It's it's probably too
late in the game for us to have our
revised regulations in place effective
July 1st, but we can do it shortly
thereafter and I think no harm done. Um
the the first is um the town is the town
like every community in Connecticut is
required to now allow what's referred to
as transit oriented middle housing which
is basically small multif family housing
um in as a um site plan use. the that
the statute calls it summary review, but
that is essentially a a site plan um
approach in all commercial and mixed use
zoning districts. So um basically our
our commercial corridor along route six
um will need to be adjusted to I think
define what is transit oriented middle
housing which is basically uh multif
family uh units of two through nine
units or a mixeduse development that
includes uh multif family of two through
nine units. Those need to be allowed by
site plan in the commercial district. So
that's number one.
Um number two is we need to change our
parking regulations relative to minimum
parking requirements for residential
um uses
and uh anything under
16 residential units. So our our single
family residences, our accessory
apartments and and our small a small
multif family including this transit
oriented um middle housing. um cannot be
um denied solely on the basis of lack of
off- streetet parking. So, we need to
adjust our our parking standards there.
And in a town like Andover, if you
develop any kind of housing thing,
you're going to provide parking. That's
just how you know development is done in
places where we have no, you know, we're
not walkable. We don't have trains. We
don't have buses. Um but we need the
state statute requires us to adjust our
parking regulations in that we cannot
require significant off- streetet
parking um for residential units above
16 residential units. We are authorized
to require a maximum of um
you can maximally require I should say
one off- streetet parking space for a
studio or one-bedroom apartment or a or
two parking spaces for a two or more
bedroom unit. Um so we basically need to
address two areas small multif family in
our commercial zone and and uh
residential parking standards.
Um, for the first one I think Mark
Brance has provided because it is a site
plan review process, the town can still
have fairly specific and fairly rigid
requirements in terms of setbacks, in
terms of lighting, in terms of
landscaping, in terms of, you know,
building design, roof, roof slope,
fenistration. Um, there's all kinds of
requirements the town can put in place,
but they cannot be discretionary. It
cannot be a special permit process with
a public hearing where we kind of
negotiate terms. It needs to be fixed
standards. Either you either you comply
or you don't. Um but those those
standards can be fairly high um should
the commission be concerned about what
these developments might look like um in
your commercial area. So I think that's
what attorney Brance provided. he
provided a set of proposed regulations
for inclusionary zoning um which is a
purely optional provision of the state
statutes. I I I don't think we need to
focus on that right now unless you
really want to. Um and I will I will
close this uh little introduction by
saying I think probably the easiest way
to proceed would be to um for you Mr.
chairman to um task a small ad hoc
committee to sort of meet separately,
make their recommendations to the full
commission um so we don't have to sort
of hash things out um you know on a on a
Tuesday night with a full group.
>> Yeah.
>> And I would add that um
because we are now getting seems like
more interest in larger scale
developments. I took a look at the
regulations and our ability to uh pass
engineering and legal costs on to the
applicants and um attorney branch agrees
with me that we don't really have that.
>> Every other town does.
>> Every other town does and he provided us
with some language.
>> Oh [__]
>> I saw how close he was over.
>> Wow.
>> There was a They're
going to win.
>> Yeah, it goes over my house.
>> I know.
>> I haven't seen anything like that since
I was a kid. And then they started
making them flyer.
>> Anyway, sorry, folks.
>> Anyway,
>> it's an exciting moment. I I I missed
what happened there. Wayne saw
something. That's all I
>> We had a fly by. A couple of military
planes just took a nice banking turn
low over
>> town of Andover.
Um so anyway, uh attorney branch did
give us some language for for that and
it may be according to attorney branch
some enabling legis lab enabling
language in a ordinance. The ordinance
that we currently have only gives the
commission authority to set fees
um for applications.
So I I strongly would urge the
commission to look at that because um as
we know our legal and engineering costs
be very significant.
>> So it's an addition to work on that.
>> I that's I'm leaving that up to the
commission. I would I would suggest and
I would suggest that that's the
lowhanging fruit here. Uh but we we do
need to address the uh affordable
housing issues.
Absolutely.
The only places I found the the ability
to pass costs along were in the area of
storm water management.
So
that's that that's my two cents worth
it. You know, I'm sure me and John be
happy to work with your ad hoc committee
through any information that that I can
provide and I know John's the same way.
I guess my thought was that John some
regulations for us. Never talked about
them.
>> We Yeah, we could we could do it that
way. I just wanted to task us with doing
it. The the one question I would have is
towns take can take very different
approaches particular. I mean, the
parking rags are easy, but the the the
summary review of middle housing um can
really go in a bunch of different
directions depending on how much you
want to regulate. Like if you really
want to build up a a fairly high bar um
for design and layout of these
facilities, that that takes a little bit
more work. I I will say the town of um
uh Colombia uh next door um already has
basically multif family um as of right
or I should say by site plan review in
their commercial district. So they
really decided they're not they don't
need to make any changes at all. They
basically say, "Okay, we already allow
this by site plan, you know." Um,
but and and other towns, for instance,
Volentown, which is obviously a very
different town from from Andover,
although it's they're both rural, um,
chose to just have a setback, a maximum
coverage, and a little bit of a
perimeter landscaping thing and just
leave it at that. No building design
things, no, you know, issue with
fenestration, no thing about and it's
really sort of, you know, how do you
want these things to look? If if you
don't have building design criteria for
your current single family residences or
your current commercial buildings,
you know, do you really need separate
design criteria for this middle housing?
But the these are sort of the
fundamental high level questions we want
to ask before like I'm asking planning
questions first and then we'll get those
zoning regulations right you know
>> and
does the commission want to engage
the citizens of the town in this in this
process in any way u via a questionnaire
or or something like that. I'm just
throwing that out there. Um
I can get the get the input from
from the citizens of the town.
>> What would be the charge of this
subcommittee
>> to look at ours to to come back to the
commission with recommendations for um
>> essentially affordable housing
uh regulations. I I would I would say
I'm sorry, Wayne. I would I would just
say regulatory amendments to comply with
public act 251.
>> Okay, I'll go with that. Y
>> public act
>> 25501.
That was the big omnibus u
are you going to be involved with these
meetings?
>> I'm sorry. Am I?
>> Yeah.
>> If you if you'd like me to.
>> I'm at your disposal, guys.
be asked that and I would even,
you know,
at some point we probably need to reach
out to attorney Branch. Uh probably when
we have something.
>> Yeah. When we have something to review,
>> something Yeah. something him to review.
So I avoid spending money on attorneys.
But John was working on the
plan confession development, right? So I
think that you know after that's done
then this would be as
>> if the PCD is done is done.
>> It's done. That's what I'm saying. So
>> of course
this
is all part
>> and this this exercise fits right in
with the PC.
>> Yeah.
>> Do we really need a subcommittee?
>> Why can't he draw it all up and bring it
to us?
>> That's I'm that's an option. No,
>> me and together I'm I'm I'm you know I'm
I'm happy to do that. I guess I would
want I would want sort of that first
question answered if you know it. I
guess so here here let me just ask you
this way. Um,
how nervous does that make you that that
uh the state is basically saying you
have to allow small multif family nine
units or under along the Route 6
corridor?
you know, are do do you are you worried
that this is going to really h have some
detrimental effect on
the community character and and and the
the visual outlook on of of the Route 6
and your your commercial corridor. if
you know if you're relatively confident
that developers will do a decent job if
someone's going to build a new small
multif family building,
you trust that they'll they'll you know
have decent design approaches, then we
can we can regulate it very minimally.
Um if you want to be very prescriptive
about what these things should look like
and how they sit on the site and how
they're landscaped and how they are, you
know, designed and lit,
then it can be, you know, more
complicated. It's it's really how much
do you want to regulate these things?
That's the question.
>> What regulate
>> or not?
>> You think
>> medium
>> medium?
>> I'm not necessarily.
>> Are we able to get any kind of
>> I was asking what it would charge. I'm
not familiar with this. So Wayne, is
that why you suggested maybe public
input?
I I'm I'm just I'm just making
suggestions to the commission that this
is going to be something that's going
we're going to have to have public
hearings on all this. Uh so I mean the
public will be able to weigh in at that
point. Um,
I I I I would like to see us as a town
try and do more to engage our citizens
in any decision making process that we
do with town, not just here, but
anywhere.
>> Any
>> any
>> Hey folks,
>> can I jump in?
>> Other than whether we're gonna sweep the
room like
>> Go ahead, Jay. Sorry.
>> Yeah, thanks. I'm just wondering uh just
a couple of things if if we can get any
kind of wisdom from other local towns
that have been dealing with this and and
see what they have to say in terms of
giving us advice. And um second, I think
in just in terms of public engagement,
it it feels like it would be good if
before we do that that we have at least
some thoughts and some thoughts of our
own kind of formed um that we could
bring to them and in terms of
suggestions um you know I don't know
done but I think they
>> could be doing a better job of
advertising ing the public hearings that
we'll have to have rather than just uh
you know legal notice in the riveries
that nobody reads.
>> So John, I thought one of the takeaways
from the transit oriented
housing was that that applied anywhere,
not just Mexican transit places. It
applies in any commercial or mixeduse
zoning district.
>> Okay. So, it's not anywhere.
>> No, it's not. It's not not in
residential district. You do not have to
change your residential regulations at
all.
>> Okay. I I misread that going through
there. I thought that was anywhere. But,
>> and that's that's another thing that I I
brought up. Does is the town interested
in allowing duplexes and triplexes in
the residential district? You guys can
just shoot me if you want, but I I feel
obligated to to bring it up for the
commission.
>> Yeah. And I think and I think, you know,
that that's it's it's good of Wayne to
jump on this now. I I think it could
also, you know, we are going to have to
basically
uh in about a year's time start having
serious conversations about what's the
what's called the town's housing growth
plan or our participation in the
regional housing growth plan. and some
of those
uh techniques, some of those zoning
changes allowing duplexes, triplexes,
quads or something like that is an
appropriate uh implementation element of
that housing growth plan when it when it
comes around. Obviously, we can do it
now and get credit for it. Um, but it's
it's something that is coming down the
pike and and we're going to be
participating probably with the region
over the next two years in in that
discussion.
So, I I think there's just from a
statutory standpoint, there's no
immediate urgency for that, but I I
commend Wayne in in being proactive
about it.
Well, I guess you know my sense was that
I'm okay with having
multifamily housing
in multifamily housing developments
where you know whether it be you know
what we're talking about out there at
Lynville Borders or Whispering Hills or
whatever
I don't know that I think it would be
right to say that we're going to build a
eight unit
apartment out on Oaks Farms Road or
something necessarily,
>> right? Me too. I feel
>> and uh the setting is
>> Yeah, we we choose, you know, where it
is. Uh
that's what I would like to, you know,
and I don't know why I think that. I
just think that, you know, neighborhood
looks like a neighborhood and it ought
to be somewhat consistent. Uh you know,
Whispering Hills is tucked in all by
itself. Nobody even knows it's there.
And uh
it's that's a that's a good thing for
the town.
But u even defining, you know, route six
is the commercial corridor. You know,
it's not all commercial. It's it's got
uh a couple of different things along it
there and and that sort of thing. But
>> and there's a lot of properties along
Route Six are very challenged,
>> right?
>> Yeah.
>> Anyhow, that's that's kind of my thought
on that. I don't know if that's right,
wrong, or indifferent. But that's how I
feel at this point. Always subject to
change. Always subject to get smarter,
but that's
and I think that's a concern that a lot
of people in town probably, you know,
have about when when they talk about
lowincome housing. They keep saying it's
not low income housing, it's affordable
housing for people. And there's still I
actually ran the numbers on affordable
housing and you're talking rents in
neighborhood of $2,600.
I I I think John came up with the same
kind of number uh 80% of our median
income or 30% of 80% of our median
income. That sends up to like $2,600 a
month for rent.
>> What's that?
135,000 or something like that.
>> That's in in Andover. And so it depends
on Yeah, it depends on the specifics of
the type of housing that's available. Um
if it's an 830G, you'd use the lower of
the town and the state. So that that
number would be would be a little bit
lower. If you did something inclusionary
um like uh Mark Brans was suggesting
then you can use the town median which
is you know the town is is more affluent
than than the state as a as a whole. So
yeah those numbers would be higher.
I guess the other thought that I had as
we were talking about Lindhol Corners
was I would like whatever regulations we
put in to allow affordable housing to be
such that
um we limit it a little bit so that if
somebody wants more they're kind of
forced to go the 830G route which forces
us to get a little affordable housing in
the now because, you know, I think
we need it and uh, you know, I I don't
think that's bad for the town in in a
developmental
uh
capacity.
So, it would be nice to have something
out there in Corners that would make
those guys create some affordable
housing for us that got credit for, not
just the uh right affordable housing
that doesn't give us any credit.
Well, that's a good point, Lane, because
$2,600 a month is not what many people
would call affordable,
>> right? No.
>> When you hear affordable housing, I
don't think a lot of people think that
they're they'd be paying $2,600 a month.
They're thinking like
>> twothirds of that. Yeah. Or half that,
you know.
So
I mean there's a lot to study.
>> We're not the we're not the only town
doing this, right?
>> Other towns have to face this, right?
>> Every town in the state.
>> Yeah. So they're they're in the same
boat. Just wondering if there's some
there's some way we could I don't know
talk to each other.
>> Yeah. So I mean and and we can provide
lots of examples of other communities
and their different approaches. Um
you know and again you know Colombia
Colombia is doing it one way because
they already have uh multif family
allowed on their commercial district. Um
you know other towns are doing it other
ways. uh a number of communities. We
we've developed sort of a fairly
complicated template that uses some
building design um and some fairly high
bars for things like landscaping and and
site design that you know we can share
and and if the commission likes that
approach then we can we can just use
that. There's there is no need to
totally reinvent the wheel on this.
There's lots and lots of examples. It's
just, you know, uh I I would like some
initial direction about, you know, the
types of templates to to, you know, uh
start with.
I guess John, another question I have is
is when we talk about the
reduction in requirements for parking,
you know, let's say you build one of
these things on Route Six,
>> what what does it mean when we're have
on street parking, you know?
>> Yeah. No. And and you wouldn't I mean
the state, I'm sure, does not allow on
street parking on Route Six. Um so yeah.
No, I mean it really becomes it becomes
it becomes an academic exercise because
no no developer in their right mind is
going to spend $25 million building a
multif family building and not providing
any parking for its tenants. Like that's
it's ludicrous. It would not happen. But
it's it's something to note.
I think we should parking on town roads
either. That's just me.
>> Yeah. Well, I agree with you, but we
said this isn't this is only on the
commercial. I mean, this ordinance.
Yeah. The
is on street parking with our little
roads just isn't smart,
>> right? But that's that's a question for
the selectman who I assume are the
traffic authority in this case.
>> Yeah.
Ah, well, that that brings something up.
We're talking about this uh
architectural and landscape
requirements. I think that we should be
a little proactive on that because
you know the all the all those
commercial properties are every our town
that that stretch of our town is so
small a lot of people don't even know
they've been through. So if they see a
whole bunch of, you know, multi-unit
family houses and that's it and then
they're out of our town. That's one of
the things we have to balance. So we
have to I think that it would be wise to
go forward with that keeping that in
mind that we have an architectural
review board and or I mean that one of
the things that came up is are we going
to need a housing authority
because currently we do not have one.
Was that one of the requirements too,
John, that we have a housing authority
by July 1st or certain population
certain population
>> there? Oh, that was that was
municipalities over uh I think 25,000
require a a fair a fair rent commission,
not a housing authority.
>> Okay. Thank you.
>> But but either way it does either way it
doesn't apply.
>> Okay. Thank you. The other thing I
wanted to ask about was the uh
architectural review board. Uh oh no,
I'm sorry. The WPCA
currently we don't have a water
commission because we don't have any
sewers.
>> So does that stay the same? Is that or
is that distributing that?
>> If if everyone is operating off of
private systems, there's no need to have
a water pollution control authority.
>> What about the uh is there a limit when
that does apply? As soon as there's
sewers and public water or
>> uh as soon as there sewers um would
really be the trigger because a public
water supply would be managed by
Connecticut Water or whoever the
exclusive service provider is for
Andover.
>> Um but yeah, I I I don't at this point
and in the projectable future I don't
think we need to worry about a WPCA.
>> Okay. Thank you.
So if I mean so if the if the commission
I mean you know this M Mr. Chairman it's
up to you if if um you would like me to
work
you know come up with some draft
regulations or work principally with
Wayne to come up with something uh for
the commission to review you know at
your next meeting. Um you know I'll I
can pitch you something down the middle
of the plate and if you want to beef it
up or if you want to scale it back
that's up to you.
How about we just bring uh bring some
sample regulations from various towns
for the commissioner to to look at?
>> Sure, that's easy.
>> Does that does that make sense to you
guys?
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, that's how he that's probably how
he's going to make
>> Oh, yeah. I mean, the wheels the wheels
been invented some
>> goes to town for six towns. He knows
exactly what he's doing on all this
stuff.
>> Yep.
>> Well, did already give us an example?
Yeah. Okay. But
I'm sure
>> Brance has a Yeah, Brance has a template
and we can share some other templates.
Certainly.
>> Brance's template. I mean, it's it's
nice and everything, but I'm not certain
that that's what it'll look like.
That was written by by the lawyers,
wasn't it?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, Mark Brans will tell
you that in his previous life, he was a
planner, but yeah, it was written by a
lawyer.
some plain language is always better.
>> And then if we had to have at least one
public hearing
and that's what someone said, then that
would address what Wayne was saying
about involving the public,
>> right? But I I would like us to I guess
it fall on me to do a better job getting
the public out, getting notice out if
it's required.
>> If it's required. Yeah. Well, a public a
public hearing is absolutely required
for this will this will be a text
amendment to the regulation. So, you
would absolutely need to have a public
hearing, but it's I think Wayne is just
talking about making some efforts to
making sure that the public is aware and
and engaged a little bit more than than
they tend to be.
>> Oh, yeah. That that's a perfectly good
idea. But I mean, I don't think there's
anything that you're not doing now,
right? You just wanted
>> Well, I just wanted I just put a a legal
notice in the rivers that nobody
>> the POC survey that we put out. We had a
little ad in the River East that did a
better job on that. I think we had uh
you know maybe some town email last that
came out letting everybody know
>> and that's certainly a we could do. I
guess I'm looking for the commission's
blessing to
maybe
>> we need some proposed rights basically.
>> Well, once we have something that Yeah,
>> I think John is right. Once we have
something concrete
>> and then
>> then we can ask for input
>> when we have the public hearing,
>> right?
>> And then do a better job of advertising
and and promoting it.
>> Yeah. Okay, because this is a big step
for an basic step,
>> you know, and then but it's also going
to apply to mixed use zones.
>> Oh, we don't have
zones.
>> It it is it's the same thing. Yeah,
basically
>> Route 6 corridor at the moment. And
you know, we have a lot of residential
still on Route Six. Uh,
so
>> I mean, I'm on some of the, you know,
the
town websites, but they're not town
endorsed. You know, they're Andover
citizen this and and over support
network that.
I mean, I could put something just
factual on there just saying yes,
there's a public hearing. This is what
public hearing,
>> right? Once the public hearings once we
have something in public hearing was
set. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah.
>> Get the word out and maybe we maybe we
move the venue to the auditorium over
there or something.
That's all I got. Sounds like a plan.
We'll let the planner plan.
Any other comments, discussion on that?
So, at this point, I guess we'll hold
off
an actual subcommittee, but if if it
comes to that, I'll be looking for
volunteers or
you actually I point you.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. And I'm not opposed to it. And I
missed the beginning of the discussion.
I was just thinking that's why I asked
about exactly what the charge of the a
subcommittee would be is you know
sometimes they can create
and the time it takes you to form a
committee and then set a schedule
sometimes whether it's you know this
commissioner the board of selectman in
my opinion a lot of times somebody could
just do it whatever commission you're
talking about could have just done it
>> I tend to agree but a horse by committee
is a camel So,
well,
I'll hold off on subcommittee then.
>> All right. I guess we can move on to
item 12, administrative reports.
>> Okay. Um,
I've actually
been working this week on
uh zoning and boy
enforcement. Um, I have a list here of
one, two, three, six,
eight locations.
Um,
letters that are going out.
These are basically preliminary letters,
not notices of violation, just u
make contact and uh discuss the
situations that apparent that appear to
exist.
>> Are you going to make that available to
us?
>> Yes. Once the letters are Yeah, I'll
I'll let you guys have copies of them.
at the uh probably at the next meeting.
And u
two were zoning violations.
One I don't know
can't make somebody finish the house
they started building.
>> You haven't figured out a way to do that
yet?
>> No, I I don't sign. I don't see
anything. I don't see any way of doing
that.
>> Wasn't the certificate of occupancy do
that?
>> Yeah. Was there any I mean
>> it's the building official? Yeah. I mean
it's
Was there a CEO issue?
>> No, there's no CO
house is still
>> I know what the downstairs Okay.
>> Is there a CO on house? No. On Center
Street. No.
Handy. Handy. Oh, that one with the
um
Yeah, there's a CO because you can live
in a house you're renovating. I I guess
that that's how that works.
25 years later
apparently. Huh. So I I was thinking I
was thinking on Center Street.
It's been at kind of a standstill for
quite a while now.
But um
but I'll um you know I'll give you what
what what I write to them and you know
I don't I don't just send them letters.
I call I talk to them before I you know
just to let them know that this is
coming.
That's really all I have.
>> Thank you Wayne. Good to see you're
sticking with it.
I it's
>> big thing for Inland Wetlands uh is you
we've got the application in to redo the
Bola Bridge Lake Road culver
and uh as of the last meeting we
sh
>> now you know it's like was we didn't
have a wetlands agent you know they have
these big project. It' be nice to have a
wetlands agent review. Um, and so uh
maybe uh unrelated to that, we probably
kicked the can down the road by deciding
to schedule a public hearing uh that and
uh so that bought us a little more time
before we have to act on it. But uh so
we'll be doing a public hearing in our
next uh meeting coming up in June
on that.
And I hope I can it's it's
I'm I try to stay in my lane. Let me let
me start out with that. I try to stay in
my lane. So um I conversations with Matt
about scheduling a uh
interview and interview of
candidates. I use the word again,
make that plural, but um
it seems to me it's
or it seems like it's a lot harder than
it needs to be.
I'll just leave it at that.
>> I guess we don't have an Egyptian.
>> How many applications did you have?
There was one
and one other person that was
interested, right? I told
>> but didn't apply.
>> Yeah. But it's just common knowledge,
>> right? There may be common knowledge,
but without an application can't can't
move on it. Can't move on that person.
So
John told you
John told that the Columbia person was
interested in doing web
>> and yeah I think she talked I think she
talked about
>> I I don't want to discuss individuals in
public form just
prior to them being interviewed for
position with the town.
Okay,
I just want to say that I am trying to
move it and I've had limited success.
>> Well said.
>> Yep.
>> Okay. Uh John, you're up.
>> Okay. Uh well, so earlier in the month,
Wayne and I had uh a discussion with the
folks from Linhome Corners, the the
potential developers, and kind of went
through uh the the their their
concepts of what they wanted to do and
the and the current regulations. Um
pointed out some areas that would need
to be tweaked if they were going to
pursue this as sort of that uh mixeduse
overlay. Um, and I think, you know, if
they wanted to go that route, they could
submit their um, you know, their concept
plan and some proposed zoning regulation
changes essentially at the same time.
That would be sort of mutually enabling.
Um, but sort of gave them homework to to
go back and try to figure it out. Uh,
and and they'll be back with us
hopefully sooner than later. Um and
beyond that, relative to uh housing
growth um and the the required statutory
plans that are coming down the pike, I
have been invited as uh Andover's
consulting planner to participate in a
CROG CROG meaning our our council of
governments, capital region council of
governments um housing growth technical
advisory group that's made up, it
appears of most of the planners in the
Crag region. Um the first meeting of
that group is next Thursday the 28th. Um
if Wayne or someone else is interested
in in also representing the town, um we
can we can reach out to Craig and see
I'll be there representing both and over
and Colombia.
Um so that's that's upcoming next week.
Sounds good.
All
right. Any uh public speaking?
None. Moving on to approval of minutes.
>> I'll make a motion to approve the April
21st minutes as presented.
I'll
>> second.
Uh all in favor
>> just sorry one little thing I forgot
discussion
>> I think it's I think it's was under
number two I think there's just one
misspelling it's um
I think it's supposed to say heating and
it says heaving
>> that's the only thing I saw Huh?
>> Yeah.
>> Uh,
very good.
You like anybody like to make a motion?
Do you want that amended?
>> As amended. Yeah. I'll make a motion to
approve the minutes as amended.
A second. All in favor?
>> I I
>> I motion passes 500.
>> Is he allowed to vote? He's already he
doesn't have to get sworn in. Right.
>> Well, he has to get probably sworn in as
a regular member. Sworn in as an older
Yeah. Seated and seated. Correct. Okay.
Don't forget to get sworn in, Jay. Just
before I forget.
>> You got it. Yeah. I'll be in I'll be
there in person next month.
Are you going to notify the town clerk?
>> Yeah. Do I go see you, Wayne, or do I go
to the clerk?
>> Town clerk. Yeah.
>> Town clerk. All right. Patrick, do you
know who that is?
>> Nope.
>> All right. Next meeting is June 16th
and
I get a motion for make motion we
>> second 848
second. All in favor I motion passes.
>> Thank you Jay. Motion passes 500 Z.